[Music]
from our Farfetch'd department at bright
side comes this item for your
consideration what will happen if you
wake up during surgery hey guys it's
absolutely normal to feel nervous if
you're about to undergo an operation
unfortunately numerous urban legends
exist about how things can go wrong
during surgery
such myths don't have any grounds but
they can escalate your anxiety one such
fear makes people wonder what will
happen if they wake up when an operation
is in progress like this yeah what top
jock find anything where it's not
supposed to be let's investigate this
issue together but first of all hit that
subscribe button and turn on
notifications to join us on the bright
side of life
so waking up during surgery is called
anesthesia awareness and it is an
extremely rare occurrence according to
the American Society of
Anesthesiologists can't you just imagine
how exciting their meetings are only one
person out of 10,000 wakes up from
general anesthesia before an operation
is finished and if we speak about
high-risk surgeries this number drops to
one in 40,000 patients people usually
receive general anesthesia before major
surgery it relaxes muscles and puts
patients to sleep therefore nobody feels
the pain of an operation the patient
isn't aware of anything after anesthesia
starts working in addition they don't
remember anything when they wake up most
people receive anesthesia through an IV
after half a minute they calmly drift
off to sleep the medications that are
used for general anesthesia typically
include hypnotics to reduce awareness
sedatives to relax the body and
narcotics to decrease pain as soon as a
patient falls asleep these medications
are transitioned to inhaled anesthetics
as for anesthesia awareness this
phenomenon is far from what most
we'll take it to be waking up during
surgery doesn't mean excruciating pain
combined with paralysis in a few
reported cases of anesthesia awareness
patients could recognize that something
was happening around them some people
felt some pressure and slight pain
others describe this experience as
having a very vivid dream in this dream
they were acutely aware of their
surroundings
however the most widespread reaction to
anesthesia awareness is hearing sounds
and voices coming from medical personnel
this may be explained by the fact that
after the body receives anesthesia the
auditory system is the last to shut down
the least likely outcome of anesthesia
awareness is opening your eyes during an
operation in any case you should
remember that the chances of waking up
during surgery are minuscule here that
means very small your anesthesiologist
is present throughout the whole
procedure and if something unusual
happens they will take care of this
unexpected development moreover
according to the Royal College of
anaesthetists in the UK cases of
anesthesia awareness that have been
reported were short and lasted no longer
than five minutes you are at a slightly
higher risk of experiencing anesthesia
awareness if you're between 25 and 40
years old you're overweight or obese
you're female you have had several
medical conditions particular types of
surgeries may raise the risk of
awareness such surgeries are mostly
emergency operations after a serious
injury emergency c-sections and some
types of heart surgery even though
anesthesia awareness can be an upsetting
and stressful experience it can't harm
you remember that before any surgery
patients have a conversation with their
anesthesiologist you can lower the risk
of waking up during an operation by
telling your doctor as much as you can
about your health conditions problems
you've had with anesthesia before your
worries and fears related to the surgery
all the medicines you take from
prescribe to over-the-counter ones you
should even
and herbal supplements and how much
coffee you plan to drink before the
operation no that's not why it's
probably not a surprise that anesthesia
awareness isn't the only fear people
have when it comes to surgeries here are
some more myths that make people avoid
in postpone operations by any means
possible you will reveal all your
secrets under anesthesia surprisingly
many people are worried that when
they're receiving anesthesia they will
blurt out things they may regret later
this fear has no grounds people do feel
more relaxed under anaesthetic but they
don't reveal anything unusual what's
more in most cases people just talk
nonsense and don't try to acquaint
medical personnel with their life
stories but even if you turn out to be
that unique individual who manages to
say something revealing in the operating
room the doctors won't pay any attention
to this information they know that their
patient is under some serious
medications thus what is said in the
operating room stays in the operating
room well all that being equal I'd
rather be in Las Vegas myself you will
behave aggressively when anesthesia is
wearing on such cases were common in the
past when diethyl ether was used as an
anesthetic
this substance started to fulfil the
function of anesthesia in 1842
unfortunately diethyl ether not only
made patients aggressive but also evoke
severe nausea and vomiting well that's
not very pleasant is it that's why it
was replaced with improved forms of
anesthetics as soon as they were
developed nowadays people might start to
behave in a crazy way when their
anesthesia is wearing off but they won't
demonstrate outright aggression instead
they might keep asking the same
questions over and over again because
their short-term memory is temporarily
let us say really goofed up or they mix
faces and names and take the doctor to
be their best friend but the most common
state after anesthesia is grogginess and
sleepiness
you will have nightmares after
anesthesia is administered most people
describe being under anesthesia as a
blackout they report falling asleep and
then waking up seemingly a couple of
minutes later this means that even if
they were dreaming they don't remember
anything at all however about 20% of
patients who have undergone general
anesthesia remember dreaming but these
dreams aren't nightmares on the contrary
they are typically quite pleasant and
resemble the dreams people have during
sleep those who managed to see dreams
under anesthesia are mostly younger
males who usually remember what they
dream about in their everyday life
specialists suggest that dreams under
anesthesia happen during the recovery
period which is when patients are still
sedated but already in a sleep state you
will get addicted to opioids after
anesthesia it's a well-known fact that
opioids are a part of general
anaesthesia they are used to numb the
pain during an operation many people
have a fear of becoming addicted to
these opioids after receiving anesthesia
as a matter of fact that's not what you
should be worried about the doses of
opioids used during surgery aren't
enough to develop an addiction what
makes people dependent on drugs is
overuse of painkillers after surgery
researchers from the University of
Michigan figured out that some surgeons
prescribe a greater allowance of
medication then some patients end up
using the study involved 170 people who
had previously undergone gallbladder
surgery it turned out that 100 people
took only six pills out of the 50
prescribed ones this is why you should
be extremely cautious with your opioid
medications discuss this subject with
your doctor remember that after five
days of taking opioids physiological
dependence already starts to set in you
will see the afterworld under anesthesia
some people believe that they will be
able to see the afterworld when they are
under anesthesia just like people who
have experienced clinical death but the
notions of being under anesthesia and
experiencing clinical death
are as far from each other as they can
be clinical death happens when the heart
stops beating and as a result breathing
and blood circulation cease as for
general anesthesia
it's a medically induced reversible coma
and it is controlled by doctors it has
been mentioned before that in this state
you won't feel anything even if you
dream about something you won't remember
your dreams afterward in any case you
won't have an out-of-body experience
when you're under anesthesia so have you
ever experienced general anesthesia how
about captain anesthesia or major
anesthesia
maybe sergeant okay I'll stop if so tell
us all about it in the comments below
hit the like button if at least some of
your surgery fears have been relieved
share this video with your friends and
once you're off the anesthesia remember
to subscribe to this channel to join us
on the bright side of life